---
author: admin
comments: false
date: 2009-08-10 22:35:52+00:00
layout: default
link: https://kromey.us/about
slug: about
title: About Kromey
wordpress_id: 2
---

# About Kromey

 * [CV](/about/cv/)
 * [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/travisveazey/)

I solved my first cipher when I was 8. Well, that probably wasn't the first
such puzzle I completed, but it was the one that ignited my interest in
encryption. I was simply fascinated, as I'm sure many kids are, with the idea
of secret messages that nobody else could read, and with reading the secret
messages I wasn't supposed to! I learned what I could about Vigen√®re and Caesar
Box ciphers, and even invented a couple myself (although I wouldn't want to
rely on them as anything more than mere toys).

Eventually, though, I became less interested in the methods themselves, and
more interested in their application and proper use. Over time, that grew into
a passion for security in general. So while I could still implement a
Diffie-Hellman key exchange, for example, I'm much more interested in how that
could be used to implement perfect forward secrecy or end-to-end encryption in
applications like HTTPS or [Signal](https://signal.org/) to protect data in
transit.

Of course, even the best encryption fails with poor key management. Which is
why I am always keeping up with the latest trends in password use; in fact,
within just a few months of NIST releasing their updated password guidance, I
pushed for and then implemented a new password policy in line with those
guidelines. It's also why I was the only one willing to step up and say "No"
when a vendor asked for our wildcard TLS certificate to be emailed to them --
along with the password for the private key!

There's so much more to security than just encryption; that was merely the
initial draw for me. Today my personal network uses segmented subnets and VLANs
to isolate guest and IoT traffic; my firewall limits traffic flow and even
performs some basic IPS functions; and my DNS server blocks any attempts to
contact known C2 and other malicious servers. All because security truly is my
passion, and there's always more to learn.

Specialties: Firewalls, iptables, Python, PowerShell, Linux, Bash
